= Chanko
== What is Chanko
Chanko provides a simple framework for rapidly and safely prototyping new
features in your production Rails app, and exposing these prototypes to
specified segments of your user base.

With Chanko, you can release many concurrent features and independently manage
which users see them. If there are errors with any chanko, it will be
automatially removed, without impacting your site.

Please take a look at https://github.com/cookpad/chanko_sample which is a
simple example app using chanko.

Chanko is currently released as a beta.

== Supported versions
Ruby 1.8.7, 1.9.2

Rails 3.0.10 ~

Rails 3.2: you might want to use beta branch.

== Install
Add your Gemfile.
  gem 'chanko', :git => 'git://github.com/cookpad/chanko.git'
Run install.
  rails generate chanko:install
Add this code to ApplicationHelper.
  include Chanko::Invoker
  include Chanko::Helper

== Files

Generate chanko.
  rails generate chanko sample
        create  app/units/sample/sample.rb
        create  app/units/sample/views/_show.html.haml
        create  app/units/sample/stylesheets/tutorial.scss
        create  app/units/sample/images/logo.png
        create  app/units/sample/specs/models/sample_spec.rb
        create  app/units/sample/specs/controllers/sample_controller_spec.rb
        create  app/units/sample/specs/helpers/sample_helper_spec.rb

=== app/units/sample/sample.rb
Main file. You write your model and controller logic in this file.

=== app/units/sample/views
The view files for your chanko. Each chanko refers to its own views directory.

=== app/units/sample/stylesheets/tutorial.scss
Write styles for your chanko in this file. These files will be merged during
startup or first access.

=== app/units/sample/images/logo.png
The image files for this chanko.
if you manually created this directory, you should create a symbolic link from
app/units/sample/images to  (public or assets)/images/units/#{unit_name}
with attention to use the relative path.
If you used generator, the symbolic link is automaticlly generated.

=== app/units/sample/specs/
Tests for this chanko go here.

== Syntax
  module Sample
    include Chanko::Unit

    # active_if's block is used to decide if the chanko is active or not.
    # context is the object which invoked the function.
    active_if :always_true do |context, options|
      true
    end

    shared(:hello) do |name|
      "hello #{name}"
    end

    scope(:controller) do
      function(:controller_show) do
        # controller code here
      end
    end

    scope(:view) do
      function(:view_show) do
        render :partial => "/show"
      end
    end

    models do
      expand("ExpandedModel") do
        #expanded_model.ext(:sample).has_many_associations
        has_many :has_many_associations
        has_one :has_one_association

        # should use lambda
        scope :exists, lambda { where(:deleted_at => nil) }

        # expanded_model_instance.ext.new_method
        def new_method
        end

        #expanded_mode.ext.new_method
        class_methods do
          def new_class_method
          end
        end
      end
    end

    helpers do
      # ext.helper_method
      def helper_method
      end
    end
  end

== active_if
"active_if()" decides if the chanko is enabled or not. active_if receives an
arg of the invoked context, such as the controller.
The chanko is enabled when the block returns true.
  # activeif's block is used to decide if the chanko is active or not.
  # context is the object which invoked the function.
   which invoking function object.
  active_if do |context, options|
    true
  end

Also, "active_if()" accepts pre defined symbols. "active_if()" evaluates the AND
result for all symbols and the block.
  # This definition means "user is staff and environment is not production"
  active_if :staff, :not_production do |context, options|
    # some additional conditions
  end

You can define additional symbols in lib/active_if_files/main.rb.
  Chanko::ActiveIf.define(:not_production?) do |context, options|
    !Rails.env.production?
  end

  Chanko::ActiveIf.define(:staff) do |context, options|
    user = options[:user] || context.instance_variable_get('@login_user')
    next false unless user
    next false unless user.staff?
    next true
  end

When you want to use an OR condition, use "any()".
  # This means "current user is staff or paid user. And environment is not production"
  active_if any(:staff, :paid), :not_production

== shared method
"shared()" is the syntax for shared method definitions. you can use the defined
method through functions of either :controller or :view. A block of a shared
method behaves as an instance method.
  shared(:hello) do |name|
    "hello #{name}"
  end

  scope(:view) do
    function(:hello) do
      hello("alice")
    end
  end

== function
A "function()" is expanded in the calling code. This block's context behaves
as an invoked context, so you can access the original context's instance
variables. if you need to access local variables, a function provides a :locals
option that is similar to :locals use in render.
A function is scoped, and its scope is a restriction for the function. The
function is only called from scoped context.
  #scope can receive specified context such as "scope('UsersController')".
  scope(:controller) do
    function(:controller_show) do
      # controller code here
    end
  end

"invoke()" in your controller runs a function block if the active_if block
returns true. In this case, if active_if for the sample chanko is true, then
controller_show will be invoked in the chanko main.rb
  class UsersController
    def show
      invoke(:sample, :controller_show)
    end
  end

"invoke()" can receive a block as a default fallback. The block is executed if
the active_if block returns false or the function raises an error.
  invoke(:sample, :controller_show) do
     default_behaviour
  end

"run_default()" method runs default block and return a result as string.
it is used by function block
  function(:hello) do
    result = run_default
    "#{result} + hello"
  end

"invoke()" can receive multiple functions. "invoke" tries to run the functions
in turn. Only the first enabled function is executed.
  #invoke doesn't run second_unit function if first_unit is enabled.
  invoke([:first_unit, :show], [:second_unit, :show])

"invoke"() doesn't run if the specified chanko in the :if is disabled
  invoke(:sample, :show, :if => :depend_on_unit)

== expand
"expand()" expands existing model methods and adds chanko helper methods. The
expanded method is only used by the expanding chanko.
All expanded method must be used in your code via *ext* proxy as below.
  user_instance.ext.expanded_method

You can write expanding methods for current models. The "models()" block
provides association and named_scope and class method syntax.
  models do
    expand("ExpandedModel") do
       #expanded_model.ext.has_many_associations
       has_many :has_many_associations
       has_one :has_one_association
       has_many :through_associations, :through => label(:has_many_associations)
       named_scope :exists, :conditions => {:deleted_at => nil}
        # expanded_model_instance.ext.new_method
       def new_method
       end

       #expanded_mode.ext.new_method
       class_methods do
        def cmethod
        end
      end
    end
  end

When used as a symbol as an :include option for ActiveRecord, you must wrap
label with "ext.label()" syntax.
  User.find(:first, :include => [ext.label(:recipes)])

== Helpers
You can write chanko helpers.
  helpers do
    def helper_method
    end
  end

And can use helpers in views and controllers via *ext* proxy.
  function(:sample) { ext.hello }
  helpers { def hello; 'hello'; end }

== Tips
return from inside of invoke block.
Use following code.
  invoke(:hoge, :aaa) do
    redirect_to xxx
  end
  return if performed?

always activate or deactivate a chanko.
Use :always_true/:always_false on active_if.
  active_if :always_true # or :always_false

invoke with before_filter.
Use block and invoke.
  before_filter :only => :index do |controller|
    controller.invoke(:your_unit, :before_function)
  end

check status of a chanko.
you can check the status of an chanko. In almost all situations, context is controller.（deprecated ?)
  ext(:sample).active? #=> return boolean

